docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Introduction
tagline: Get started with AdonisUI
---

# Introduction

Get started with AdonisUI, a lightweight UI toolkit for WPF applications offering classic but enhanced windows visuals. Including AdonisUI in your project gives you a set of default styles for all major WPF controls. The visual design aims to be similar to the built-in counterparts, but brings a visual overhaul to create a more consistent modern look.

Additionally, AdonisUI offers the following features:

- **Theming** including theme switching at runtime
- Additional **styles** and few **custom controls** for common use cases
- **Data validation** support
- Optional **layering system**

# Getting started

1. Reference `AdonisUI` and `AdonisUI.ClassicTheme` in your WPF project. It is available via [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AdonisUI.ClassicTheme/) or [manual download](https://github.com/benruehl/adonis-ui/releases). Currently it requires at least .NET 4.0.
2. Add resources to your application in your `App.xaml` like so:

```xml
<Application xmlns:adonisUi="clr-namespace:AdonisUI;assembly=AdonisUI">
    <Application.Resources>
        <ResourceDictionary>
            <ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
                <ResourceDictionary Source="{x:Static adonisUi:ResourceLocator.LightColorScheme}"/>
                <ResourceDictionary Source="{x:Static adonisUi:ResourceLocator.ClassicTheme}"/>
            </ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
        </ResourceDictionary>
    </Application.Resources>
</Application>
```

3. Derive your window's style from the default style of AdonisUI like so:

```xml
<Window.Style>
    <Style TargetType="Window" BasedOn="{StaticResource {x:Type Window}}"/>
</Window.Style>
```

You are now automatically using the default styles of AdonisUI. If you wish to use the dark theme instead, exchange `ResourceLocator.LightColorScheme` with `ResourceLocator.DarkColorScheme`.

# Docs

- [Colors and Brushes](./pages/colors-and-brushes)
- [Cursor spotlight](./pages/cursor-spotlight)
- [Custom controls](./pages/custom-controls)
- [Data validation](./pages/data-validation)
- [Dimensions](./pages/dimensions)
- [Layers](./pages/layers)
- [Loading and Progress](./pages/loading)
- [Ripple effect](./pages/ripple)
- [Space](./pages/space)
- [Styles, templates and icons](./pages/styles-and-templates)
- [Watermarks](./pages/watermark)

Commit message:

Add info about SpaceExtension's resource owner fallback to docs

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Introduction
tagline: Get started with AdonisUI
---

# Introduction

Get started with AdonisUI, a lightweight UI toolkit for WPF applications offering classic but enhanced windows visuals. Including AdonisUI in your project gives you a set of default styles for all major WPF controls. The visual design aims to be similar to the built-in counterparts, but brings a visual overhaul to create a more consistent modern look.

Additionally, AdonisUI offers the following features:

- **Theming** including theme switching at runtime
- Additional **styles** and few **custom controls** for common use cases
- **Data validation** support
- Optional **layering system**

# Getting started

1. Reference `AdonisUI` and `AdonisUI.ClassicTheme` in your WPF project. It is available via [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AdonisUI.ClassicTheme/) or [manual download](https://github.com/benruehl/adonis-ui/releases). Currently it requires at least .NET 4.0.
2. Add resources to your application in your `App.xaml` like so:

```xml
<Application xmlns:adonisUi="clr-namespace:AdonisUI;assembly=AdonisUI">
    <Application.Resources>
        <ResourceDictionary>
            <ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
                <ResourceDictionary Source="{x:Static adonisUi:ResourceLocator.LightColorScheme}"/>
                <ResourceDictionary Source="{x:Static adonisUi:ResourceLocator.ClassicTheme}"/>
            </ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
        </ResourceDictionary>
    </Application.Resources>
</Application>
```

3. Derive your window's style from the default style of AdonisUI like so:

```xml
<Window.Style>
    <Style TargetType="Window" BasedOn="{StaticResource {x:Type Window}}"/>
</Window.Style>
```

You are now automatically using the default styles of AdonisUI. If you wish to use the dark theme instead, exchange `ResourceLocator.LightColorScheme` with `ResourceLocator.DarkColorScheme`.

> In case AdonisUI's resources cannot be included in the application's resources for some reason but instead are inserted in the window's resources or the resources of some other control, further steps need to be made.
> See [here](./pages/space#remarks-when-adonisui-is-not-included-in-the-application-resources) for further info.

# Docs

- [Colors and Brushes](./pages/colors-and-brushes)
- [Cursor spotlight](./pages/cursor-spotlight)
- [Custom controls](./pages/custom-controls)
- [Data validation](./pages/data-validation)
- [Dimensions](./pages/dimensions)
- [Layers](./pages/layers)
- [Loading and Progress](./pages/loading)
- [Ripple effect](./pages/ripple)
- [Space](./pages/space)
- [Styles, templates and icons](./pages/styles-and-templates)
- [Watermarks](./pages/watermark)
